+++
title = "Runtime Reference"
template = "doc.html"
weight = 0
+++

The Urbit runtime is named Vere. It's the binary executable you use to run your
ship (`urbit` on Linux and MacOS, `urbit.exe` on Windows). Vere manages your
ship's [pier](https://urbit.org/docs/glossary/pier), handles events, and runs
the Nock virtual machine that performs your ship's computations.

Before version 1.9, Vere was split into two separate binaries: The `urbit`
"king"/"urth" responsible for I/O and event persistence, and the `urbit-worker`
"serf"/"mars" responsible for computations and state persistence. As of version
1.9, these have been merged into a single `urbit` (or `urbit.exe`) binary,
though under the hood there's still two separate processes. The alternative king
written in Haskell, `urbit-king`, has also been deprecated, so there's now only
one binary.

Version 1.9 introduced a couple of new features. The first is the concept of
"docking". When a new ship is booted, Vere will automatically copy itself into
the pier, at `[pier]/.bin/[pace]/vere-v[version]-[architecture]`. It will also
create a link to this file at `[pier]/.run`. This means that after the initial
boot, the pier is self-contained and can be run with `[pier]/.run`, making the
separate binary unnecessary. For older ships that were booted by a previous
binary, v1.9 or later will not automatically perform this step, so it must be
done with the `dock` utility ([see below](#dock)).

The `pace` mentioned in the path above is a new feature, and represents a
release channel. At the time of writing, the default `pace` is `live`, which is
for standard, stable releases. Alternative release channels will be introduced
in the future, for things such as pre-release testing, nightly builds, etc. The
`pace` is specified in a text file at `[pier]/.bin/pace`.

Along with docking, a binary upgrade feature has also been introduced. If you
run the `next` utility ([described below](#next)), Vere will check if there is a
newer binary version available for the current `pace`. if there is, it will
automatically be downloaded and installed. This means it's no longer necessary
to go and manually download new binaries and swap them out, it's all managed
inside the pier by Vere.

## Common Usage

### Boot comet

A comet is a kind of ship which may be quickly generated by anyone and which are
virtually unlimited. They're useful as free identities for people to quickly try
out Urbit.

To boot a comet, you just need to use the `-c` argument and specify the name for
the pier (the pier is folder containing the ship's state and event log):

```
urbit -c some-pier-name
```

It will take a few minutes to bootstrap. Once complete, you'll be able to
interact with the Dojo prompt and access the web interface in a browser.

When you eventually shut down the ship, the binary will copy itself into the
pier, so in future you can run it by doing `/path/to/pier/.run`.

### Boot ship

To boot a moon, planet, star or galaxy, you must use two arguments:

- `-w` - the name of the ship (without the leading `~`).
- `-k` - the path to the key file which you downloaded from Bridge (or got from
  the parent planet and pasted into a file in the case of a moon).

```
urbit -w sampel-palnet -k /path/to/my.key
```

It will take a few minutes to bootstrap. Once complete, you'll be able to
interact with the Dojo prompt and access the web interface in a browser.

If you want, you can use and additional `-c` option to specify a name for the
pier. Without `-c`, the pier will be named the same as your ship. Note it's
possible to use `-G` in lieu of `-k` and paste the private key directly in as an
argument. This might be more convenient in the case of a moon.

When you eventually shut down the ship, the binary will copy itself into the
pier, so in future you can run it by doing `/path/to/pier/.run`.

### Run ship

If a ship has already been boostrapped, you can run it by simply specifying the
pier:

```
urbit /path/to/pier
```

Alternatively, if the pier was booted by version 1.9 or later of the binary, or
if you've previously run `dock` on the pier, you don't need a separate urbit
binary and can just do `/path/to/pier/.run` to start the ship.

### Boot fake ship

Development is often done on a "fake" ship rather than a real one. A fake ship
has no connection to the real network, and uses fake keys so you don't actually
need to own it. A fake ship can only talk to other fake ships on the same local
machine.

To create one, you just use the `-F` option and specify the name of a ship
(commonly a galaxy):

```
urbit -F zod
```

### Compact State

**Note the ship should be shut down before using either of the utilities described below.**

Ships currently have a hard 2GB limit on the size of their state. Sometimes the
state of long-running, heavily-used ships can exceed the 2GB limit and crash
with a `bail: meme` error. To fix this, there are a couple of ways to reduce the
size of the ship's state.

The first is the `pack` utility, which defragments the ship's snapshot. This
usually only mildly compacts the state, but it is fast and uses little memory.

To run `pack`, you can do either `urbit pack /path/to/pier` or
`/path/to/pier/.run pack` if it's been docked.

The second option is `meld`, which deduplicates the ship's snapshot. This can
reduce the size much more significantly, sometimes by as much as half. This can
use a lot of memory to complete, sometimes as much as 8GB, so if you don't have
ample memory on your machine you might need to map some swap space.

To run `meld`, you can either do `urbit meld /path/to/pier` or
`/path/to/pier/.run meld` if it's been docked.

If the meld succeeds, it'll print a memory report and exit. If it exits with
`KILLED`, it means it ran out of memory and the meld was aborted.

### Dock binary

From binary version 1.9 onwards, newly booted ships will have the binary
automatically copied into their piers, so they can be run by doing
`/path/to/pier/.run`. The means a separate binary is unnecessary, it's all
contained in the pier. For existing ships booted before v1.9, you need to
manually run the following command if you want this feature:

```
urbit dock /path/to/pier
```

Afterwards, you'll be able to just do `/path/to/pier/.run` and can delete the
separate `urbit` binary.

If you see an error message that the link cannot be created, check that
your file system allows hardlinks and you have permissions set to do so.
(ExFAT file systems, used on some external hard drives, cannot create
hardlinks.)

### Update binary

From binary version 1.9 onwards, there is a mechanism to update the binary
without having to go and download it yourself. Simply run `urbit next
/path/to/pier` or `/path/to/pier/.run next` if docked. It will check if any
newer binaries are available for your release channel and if there are, it'll
automatically download the new one and install it in the pier.

### Set memory size

Vere includes the [`--loom`](#--loom-size) option, which allows you to set the
size of the *loom* (the memory area where the current ship state and
computation state are stored). This is specified in exponents of two, so 1GB is
`30` (2^30=~1GB), 2GB is `31` (2^31=~2GB), 4GB is `32` (2^32=~4GB), and 8GB is
`33` (2^33=~8GB).

The default loom size is 2GB (`31`), and maximum is currently 8GB (`33`). It
can be set much lower, but below 2GB you'll likely have problems with running
out of memory.

Note the specified memory size must be entirely available. If it isn't (for
example, you specify `33` (8GB) but only have 6GB available), it will fail to
boot. The best approach in that scenario is to allocate some swap space to make
up the difference. Indeed, on memory-constrained systems, it's almost always
preferable to use swap rather than set the loom very low and crash your ship
when it runs out of memory.

Note also that setting the loom size above the 2GB default will allow the
persistent state of your ship to grow larger than 2GB. If that happens, you
won't be able to use the default size anymore, and will have to set a larger
`--loom` everytime you boot it, unless you can reduce it back below 2GB with
tools like [`pack`](#pack) and [`meld`](#meld).

See the [`--loom`](#--loom-size) entry for further usage details.

### Truncate event log

The event log of a ship is a totally ordered list of every single Arvo event
that ship has undergone. The state of a ship is a pure function of the event
log. In the event a ship's state checkpoint is corrupted, it can be rebuilt by
replaying all the events in the log. In practice, event logs become large and
unwieldy over time. They can reach many GB in size, and when they're very large
it takes an impractically long time to replay them.

To reduce the size of the event log, the binary includes a [`chop`](#chop)
utility. Chop wipes old events, and replaces them with a single event loading
the whole current state of the ship. This *drastically* reduces the size of the
log - typically down to less than a couple of GB from any larger size. Note this
will irreversibly delete the old events, but most people don't need them anyway.

To `chop` an event log, first shut down your ship with `ctrl+d` or `|exit` in
the Dojo. Next, run `urbit chop /path/to/pier` or `/path/to/pier/.run chop` if
it's docked. You'll get an output that looks something like this:

```
loom: mapped 2048MB
boot: protected loom
live: loaded: MB/140.541.952
boot: installed 652 jets
loom: image backup complete
chop: event log truncation complete
      event log backup written to ~/piers/zod/.urb/log/chop/data_1-449.mdb.bak
      WARNING: ENSURE YOU CAN RESTART YOUR SHIP BEFORE DELETING YOUR EVENT LOG BACKUP FILE!
      if you can't, restore your log by running:
      `mv ~/piers/zod/.urb/log/chop/data_1-449.mdb.bak ~/piers/zod/.urb/log/data.mdb` then try again
```

At this point the event log has been truncated but a backup has been saved, so
the size of the pier hasn't yet been reduced. Before deleting the backup, try
booting your ship and make sure it runs fine. **IT IS VERY IMPORTANT TO CHECK
THIS**. Assuming your ship boots fine, delete the backup in
`/path/to/pier/.urb/log/chop/data_XXXXX.mdb.bak`.

If your ship failed to boot, you can restore the backup by moving it to
`/path/to/pier/.urb/log/data.mdb` as described in Vere's print-out above.

---

## Utilities

These utilities are not used to run ships, but perform operations on piers,
print information about piers, or otherwise do useful things. Note the ship must
be stopped to run any of these utilities on a pier. Some of these are utilities
of the previously separate `urbit-worker`.

### `chop` 

Truncate the event log. Old events will be deleted and replaced with the current
state of the ship. This can significantly reduce the size of the pier, but you
won't be able to replay all events from the beginning (this shouldn't matter
though).

**You must shut down your ship before running this.**

- Undocked: `urbit chop [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run chop`

This will save a backup of the event log to
`/path/to/pier/.urb/log/chop/data.XXXXX.mdb.bak` when complete. Make sure your
ship starts up again before deleting that backup file. If your ship fails to
boot after running `chop`, move that `.bak` file back to
`/path/to/pier/.urb/log/data.mdb` and try booting again.

### `cram`

Jam the state of a ship. The jamfile will be saved in
`[pier]/.urb/roc/[current-event-number].jam`. This creates a portable
snapshot backup.

- Undocked: `urbit cram [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run cram`

### `dock`

Copies the urbit binary into the target pier. The binary itself will be copied
to `[pier]/.bin/[pace]/vere-v[version]-[architecture]`. The `pace` is a
release channel. The default `pace` is `live`, for ordinary stable releases. The
pace will also be recorded in a text file at `[pier]/.bin/pace`.
Additionally, a link to the current binary will be created at
`[pier]/.run`, which allows you to start a ship by calling
`[pier]/.run`.

When a ship is newly booted by a runtime from `v1.9` onwards, it will be
automatically docked. For existing ships, it must be done explicitly with this
command.

- Undocked: `urbit dock [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run dock`

Note the auto-dock behavior when booting new ships can be disabled with the
`--no-dock` option.

### `eval`

Evaluate a hoon expression without booting a ship.

The expression to evaluate is given in a string via stdin, and the result is
pretty-printed to the terminal. Note you do not need to boot an actual ship to
run this, the runtime can do it itself.

- Undocked: `echo [expression] | urbit eval`
- Docked: `echo [expression] | [pier]/.run eval`

This will work like:

```
> echo "(turn (limo 1 2 3 4 5 ~) succ)" | urbit eval
loom: mapped 2048MB
lite: arvo formula 11a9e7fe
lite: core 38d4ad4d
lite: final state 38d4ad4d
eval:
~[2 3 4 5 6]
```

### `grab`

Measure memory usage analysis of a ship. The result will be printed to the
terminal. This is the same output produced by running `|mass` in the Dojo.

- Undocked: `urbit grab [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run grab`

### `info`

Print pier information.

- Undocked: `urbit info [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run info`

```
> urbit info zod
loom: mapped 2048MB
boot: protected loom
live: loaded: MB/268.173.312
boot: installed 351 jets

urbit: zod at event 256133
  disk: live=&, event=256133

lmdb info:
  map size: 1099511627776
  page size: 4096
  max pages: 268435456
  number of pages used: 1506786
  last transaction ID: 255733
  max readers: 126
  number of readers used: 0
  file size (page): 6171795456
  file size (stat): 6171795456
```

### `meld`

Deduplicate ship state. This can significantly reduce memory usage for ships
with large states. This is a common solution when ships use up all available
mapped memory (currently 2GB) and crash with `bail: meme`.

Note this command may use a large amount of memory during execution, up to
around 8GB or so, depending on the size of the ship's state and other factors.
If you do not have enough memory to run it, you may need to allocate some swap.

If the meld succeeds, it will print out a memory usage report. If it exits
saying `KILLED`, it means it ran out of memory and the operation was aborted.

- Undocked: `urbit meld [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run meld`

### `pack`

Defragment a ship's state. This will reduce the size of a ship's state much less
than `meld`, but it is much faster and requires much less memory to complete.

- Undocked: `urbit pack [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run pack`

### `prep`

Prepare a pier for upgrade. This utility is designed to be a general-purpose
forward-compatibility mechanism. What action (if any) is taken depends on the
old version and new version. Currently, it just makes sure the snapshot is fully
up-to-date.

- Undocked: `urbit prep [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run prep`

### `next`

Request a runtime upgrade. If your binary is already the latest version, no
action will be taken. If a new binary is available, it will be upgraded.

- Undocked: `urbit next [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run next`

### `queu AT-EVENT`

Load a snapshot jamfile. `AT-EVENT` is an event number. There must be
corresponding snapshot in `[pier]/.urb/roc/[AT-EVENT].jam` created
previously with `cram` or `-n`.

- Undocked: `urbit queu [pier] 10000`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run queu 10000`

### `vere ARGS DIR`

Download a binary. `DIR` is an output directory (it must already exist) and `ARGS` are:

- `-a, --arch ARCH` - architecture, `ARCH` may be one of `x86_64-linux`,
  `x86_64-darwin`, `x86_64-windows` and `aarch64-linux`, though more may be
  added in the future.
- `-v, --version VER` - version number, `VER` is e.g. `1.9`.
- `-p, --pace` - release channel, e.g. `live`.

Example usage:

- Undocked: `urbit vere -a x86_64-linux -v 1.9 -p live .`

### `vile`

Export keyfile.

The private keys of ship in the specified pier will be printed to the terminal.

- Undocked: `urbit vile [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run vile`

### `serf ARGS`

Run as a 'serf' (as though it were the previously separate `urbit-worker`).

Note this utility is for kernel development purposes and has a programmatic
interface, it does not have a user interface.

- Undocked: `urbit serf [pier] [key] [flags] [cache-size] [at-event]`

## Options

Below are all the options/flags/arguments that can be given to the urbit
runtime.

### `-A, --arvo DIR`

When booting a new ship, use directory `DIR` for the initial `%base` desk sync,
rather than the one in the pill.

```
urbit -w sampel-palnet -k /path/to/my.key -A /path/to/arvo
```

### `-b, --http-ip IP`

Bind the HTTP server to IP address `IP`.

- Undocked: `urbit -b 192.168.1.10 [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run -b 192.168.1.10`

```
> ss -tlnp | grep urbit
LISTEN 0      16         127.0.0.1:12321      0.0.0.0:*    users:(("urbit",pid=15689,fd=29))
LISTEN 0      16      192.168.1.10:8080       0.0.0.0:*    users:(("urbit",pid=15689,fd=28))
```

### `-B, --bootstrap PILL`

When booting a new ship, use file `PILL` for the pill, rather than the default
one fetched from `https://bootstrap.urbit.org`.

```
urbit -w sampel-palnet -k /path/to/my.key -B /path/to/the.pill
```

### `-c, --pier PIER`

When booting a ship, name its pier as `PIER` rather than the usual `@p`.

- Undocked: `urbit -w sampel-palnet -k /path/to/my.key -c foobar`

The pier folder will be named `foobar` as a result of the above command.

### `-C, --memo-cache-limit LIMIT`

This sets the maximum number of entries for the memoization cache (used by the
`~+` rune and a few other things). Zero means uncapped, otherwise the specified
number of entries.

- Undocked: `urbit -C 50000 [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run -C 50000`

### `-d, --daemon`

Run the ship in daemon mode. The process will be detached from the terminal
(this implies `-t`).

- Undocked: `urbit -d [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run -d`

### `-e, --ethereum URL`

Use the Ethereum gateway at `URL` rather than the default.

- Undocked: `urbit -e https://the.url [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run -e https://the.url`

### `-F, --fake SHIP`

Boot a new fake development ship. Real networking is disabled, and instead the
fake ship can only communicate with other fake ships on the local machine. This
works for all ship classes except comets.

```
urbit -F zod
```

### `-g, --gc`

Set GC flag, dumping garbage collector logs to stdout. This runs a GC pass at
the end of every virtualized computation. This is intended as a runtime
developer/QA tool for verifying refcounts. This currently only works if the
binary was built with `MEMORY_DEBUG` (which changes allocation structures and
produces incompatible snapshots).

- Undocked: `urbit -g [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run -g`

### `-G --key-string STRING`

Boot a new ship with private key `STRING`.The private key is `@uw` format. See
`-k` for an alternative.

- Undocked: `urbit -w sampel-palnet -G 0w50w.642KA.glYh8.RvaRp.6TA35.3XRYN.ULCI6.UmcsZ.5rGvG.3dvFt.E6rMF.mZnd~.3O6QB.7LZ1f.-ukYN.z2fcY.Ecviv.LiZEg.8w0sp`

### `--http-port PORT`

Set the HTTP port to `PORT`. This is the port you'd insecurely access Landscape
on. Note this is for insecure HTTP only, see `--https-port` for HTTPS.

- Undocked: `urbit --http-port 8085 [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run --http-port 8085`

### `--https-port PORT`

Set the HTTPS port to `PORT`. This is the port you'd securely access Landscape
on. Note that this requires an SSL certificate to be configured, see the
[Configuring SSL guide](/manual/os/basics#configuring-ssl) for
details. Note that if your ship is behind a reverse proxy (nginx, Caddy, etc)
and an SSL certificate is configured _there_, you'd not usually enable HTTPS on
the ship itself.

Note this is for secure HTTPS only, see `--http-port` for insecure HTTP.

- Undocked: `urbit --https-port 8443 [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run --https-port 8443`

### `-I, --inject FILE`

Inject the event stored in `FILE` jamfile.

Note this has "full privileges" and can do anything to your ship. `-I` is for
customization in hosting environments, and emergency recovery for sinking ships.
Only run from trusted sources.

- Undocked: `urbit -I /path/to/file.jam [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run -I /path/to/file.jam`

### `-j, --json-trace`

Create JSON trace files in `[pier]/.urb/put/trace`.

This runs a tracing profiler, and produces JSON output compatible with
`chrome://tracing`.

- Undocked: `urbit -j [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run urbit -j`

### `-J, --ivory-pill PILL`

This specifies an alternative Ivory pill to use. An Ivory pill is a pill
compiled into the binary and used for runtime support code. You would not
typically use this unless you're doing runtime or kernel development.

- Undocked: `urbit -J /path/to/ivory.pill [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run -J /path/to/ivory.pill`

### `-k, --key-file KEYS`

Boot a new ship with the private key file `KEY`. See `-G` for an alternative.

- Undocked: `urbit -w sampel-palnet -k /path/to/my.key`

### `-L, --local`

Run a ship with local networking only. This will disable Ames networking, so the
ship will not be able to communicate with other ships. HTTP(S) will continue to
work as normal.

- Undocked: `urbit -L [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run -L`

### `--loom SIZE`

Specify loom size (maximum memory usage).

The size is specified in exponents of 2. The default is 31 (2GB), minimum is 20
(1MB), and maximum is 33 (8GB).

- Undocked: `urbit --loom [size] [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run --loom [size]`

This can also be used with utilities like [`pack`](#pack) and [`meld`](#meld).
Note it must be specified *after* the utility like `urbit pack --loom 32
~/piers/zod `.

### `-n, --replay-to NUMBER`

Replay up to the specified event `NUMBER`.

- Undocked: `urbit -n 10000 [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run -n 10000`

A snapshot will be saved in a jamfile at `[pier]/.urb/roc/[NUMBER].jam`.

### `--no-conn`

Disable the control pane unix socket.

- Undocked: `urbit --no-conn [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run --no-conn`

### `--no-dock`

From v1.9 onwards, when a new ship is booted, the urbit binary will copy itself
into the newly created pier by default (see the [`dock`](#dock) section for
details). To prevent this from happening, the `--no-dock` option can be used.

- Undocked: `urbit --no-dock -w sampel-palnet -k /path/to/my.key`

### `-p, --ames-port PORT`

Set the Ames UDP port to `PORT`. This is the port used for inter-ship
communications.

- Undocked: `urbit -p 33333 [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run -p 33333`

### `-P, --profile`

Enable profiling. Profiles will be saved to `[pier]/.urb/put/profile/[now].txt`.
This is useful for debugging and development. Profiling hit counters in Hoon
code specified with the `~$` rune will be recorded here.

This runs a sampling profiler and produces custom output. Runtime cost metrics
are only calculated if the binary was built with `CPU_DEBUG`.

- Undocked `urbit -P [pier]`
- Docked `[pier]/.run -P`

### `-q, --quiet`

Run a ship without verbosity. This disables the output that the `|verb` command
toggles. This is the opposite of `-v`. Verbosity can be enabled again by running
`|verb`.

- Undocked: `urbit -q [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run -q`

### `-r, --replay-from NUMBER`

Load snapshot at event `NUMBER`, only replay after that event. This lets you
resume a partially completed replay. For the given `NUMBER`, there must be
a corresponding snapshot in `[pier]/.urb/roc/[NUMBER].jam`, created by
`cram` or `-n`.

- Undocked: `urbit -r 10000 [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run -r 10000`

### `-R, --versions`

Report Vere build info.

```
> urbit -R
urbit 1.9
gmp: 6.2.1
sigsegv: 2.14
openssl: OpenSSL 1.1.1n  15 Mar 2022
libuv: 1.43.0
libh2o: 0.13.6
lmdb: 0.9.29
curl: 7.81.0
```

- Undocked: `urbit -R [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run -R`

### `-t, --no-tty`

Disable terminal/TTY assumptions. With this set, there will be no Dojo prompt,
and you'll only see debug messages from the runtime. This is similar to daemon
mode (see `-d`), but the process will remain attached to the terminal in which
it was run.

- Undocked: `urbit -t [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run -t`

### `-u, --bootstrap-url URL`

Boot a new ship, using the pill fetched from `URL` rather than the default one.

- Undocked: `urbit -w sampel-palnet -k /path/to/my.key -u http://example.com/the.pill`

### `--urth-loom SIZE`

Specify the loom size (maximum memory usage) of the "king"/"urth" process.

The size is specified in exponents of 2. This is something you're unlikely to
need to use as the "king"/"urth" process doesn't have a persistent state and
doesn't need much memory. The [`--loom`](#--loom-size) option, which sets the
"serf"/"mars" memory size, is much more useful.

- Undocked: `urbit --urth-loom [size] [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run --urth-loom [size]`

### `-v, --verbose`

Run a ship with verbose output. This is the same as what you get when you run
`|verb`, and can be disabled by running `|verb`. This is the opposite of `-q`.

- Undocked: `urbit -v [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run -v`

### `-w, --name NAME`

Boot a new ship with an Urbit ID of `NAME`. The `NAME` is the ordinary `@p`
format but without the leading `~`, so `~sampel-palnet` is specified as
`sampel-palnet`. This is typically used in conjunction with `-k` when booting a
new ship.

- Undocked: `urbit -w sampel-palnet -k /path/to/my.key`

### `-x, --exit`

Run a ship but exist immediately after it starts.

- Undocked: `urbit -x [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run -x`

### `-X, --scry PATH`

Read a ship's state on scry path `PATH`, jamming the result and saving it to
`[pier]/.urb/put/[PATH].jam`. The scry path is in the format
`/[care]/[path]`, omitting the ship and case elements. For example,
`/cx/~zod/base/~2022.6.2..11.27.40..8f56/gen/code/hoon` would be
`/cx/base/gen/code/hoon`.

- Undocked: `urbit -X /cx/base/gen/code/hoon [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run -X /cx/base/gen/code/hoon`

### `-Y, --scry-info FILE`

Optional name for the file produced by a scry performed with `-X`, rather than the scry path.

- Undocked: `urbit -X /cx/base/gen/code/hoon -Y foobar [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run -X /cx/base/gen/code/hoon -Y foobar`

### `-Z, --scry-format FORMAT`

Optionally specify the output format for the file produced by a `-X` scry. The
format may either be `jam` to produce a jam file, or else an aura. If it's an
aura, the leading `@` is omitted, so `@ud` is specified as `ud`. If an aura is
specified, the resulting atom is encoded in a text file with that aura's
formatting. If an aura is specified, the scry endpoint must produce an atom, not
a cell.

- Undocked: `urbit -X /cx/base/gen/code/hoon -Z ud [pier]`
- Docked: `[pier]/.run -X /cx/base/gen/code/hoon -Z ud`
